[EDU-596] add okta saml guide (#652)
aziontech/docs: src/content/docs/en/pages/guides/how-to-okta-saml/index.mdx

---

> title: Using Okta custom SAML app as an IdP for Real-Time Manager

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: How to use Okta custom SAML app as an IdP for Real-Time Manager
```

description: Hands-on guide on how to configure an Okta custom SAML application as an IdP for Azion Real-Time Manager.
meta_tags: accounts, users authentication, SAML, okta, IdP
namespace: documentation_sso_okta_saml
permalink: /documentation/products/guides/sso-okta-saml/
---

> The Okta Identity Provider (IdP) is a trusted entity that allows you to enable single sign-on to access other sites or services, such as Azion. Your users can continue using their corporate user identities without having to remember a specific password or enter credentials each time they access **Real-Time Manager (RTM)**. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Okta Identity Provider (IdP) is a trusted entity that allows you to enable single sign-on (SSO) to access other sites or services, such as Azion. Your users can continue using their corporate user identities without having to remember a specific password or enter credentials each time they access **Real-Time Manager (RTM)**. 
```

:::caution[warning]

> Even if you're using an IdP, it’s necessary to register all users of the account on RTM as they are synced in both RTM and IdP. An inexistent user on RTM won’t be able to log in to it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Even if you're using an IdP, it’s necessary to register all users of the account on RTM as they're synced in both RTM and IdP. An inexistent user on RTM won’t be able to log in to it.
```

:::

When using an IdP, you have two protocol possibilities: Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML) and OpenID Connect (OIDC).

To set up an Okta custom SAML app as your account IdP for RTM, follow the next steps.

---

## Configuring the SAML app on Okta Admin Console

1. Log into the [Okta Admin Console](https://login.okta.com/).
2. On the homepage, under **Applications**, select **Applications**. 
3. Click **Create App Integration**.
4. On the modal, select the option **SAML 2.0** and click **Next**.
5. Name the application and configure optional settings. Example: `Azion SAML`.
6. Click the **Next** button.

> 7. In the **General** section, fill in the **Single sign-on URL** field with a URL. This will be adjusted after. Example: `https://sso.azion.com`.

Reviewer 2: This will be adjusted after or This can be adjusted after?

> 7. In the **General** section, fill in the **Single sign-on URL** field with a URL. This will be adjusted after. Example: `https://sso.azion.com`.

Author: ```suggestion
7. In the **General** section, fill in the **Single sign-on URL** field with a URL. This will be adjusted later. Example: `https://sso.azion.com`.
```

8. Repeat the previous step for the **Audience URI (SP Entity ID)** field.
9. Scroll down to the **Attribute Statements** section and fill in the fields with the following data:
    - **Name**: `email`
    - **Name format**: Basic
    - **Value**: `user.email`
10. Click the **Next** button.
11. Fill in the **Feedback** section as required.
12. Click the **Finish** button.
13. After you're redirected to your app details, click the **Sign On** tab.
14. Under **Metadata details**, click **More details**.
15. Copy the following metadata:
    - **Sign on URL**, in the format `https://custom-name.okta.com/app/app-id/sso/saml`.
    - **Issuer**, in the format `http://www.okta.com/app-id`.
16. Scroll to the **SAML Signing Certificates** section and download the active certificate or generate a new one.

---

## Configuring the Identity Provider on RTM

:::note

> You must be the **Account Owner** on RTM to perform these settings.

Reviewer 2: Suggestion: add this link https://www.azion.com/en/documentation/products/accounts/teams-permissions/

Author: Adding in later review.

:::

> 1. Log in to [Real-Time Manager](https://manager.azion.com/).
> 2. On the upper-right corner of the page, select the avatar menu. This is the **Account menu**.
> 3. Select **SSO Management**.
> 4. Click the **Add Identity Provider** button and select **SAML**.
> 5. On the **Identity Provider** page, choose a name that identifies your identity provider. Example: `Okta IdP`.
> 6. Fill in the following fields with the data copied from the Okta Admin Console:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Access [Real-Time Manager](/en/documentation/products/guides/how-to-access-rtm/#managing-the-account) > **Account menu**.
2. Select **SSO Management**.
3. Click the **Add Identity Provider** button and select **SAML**.
4. On the **Identity Provider** page, choose a name that identifies your identity provider.
- Example: `Okta IdP`.
5. Fill in the following fields with the data copied from the Okta Admin Console:
```

Reviewer 2: Verify steps 1&2, it seems like something is missing.

Author: Nothing is missing, SSO is only available for some accounts.

- **Identity provider’s Entity ID URI**: add the **Issuer** URL.
- **Sign-in URL**: add the **Sign on URL**.
- **Certificate**: add the downloaded certificate, including the `-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----` and `-----END CERTIFICATE-----` tags.

> 7. Click **Save**. You'll be redirected to the list of identity providers, where you can view all the providers created in your account.
> 8. To configure the IdP you created in RTM with the Identity Provider, click the three dots on the corner of the IdP card and select **Edit**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
6. Click **Save**.
- You'll be redirected to the list of identity providers, where you can view all the providers created in your account.
7. To configure the IdP you created in RTM with the Identity Provider, click the three dots on the corner of the IdP card and select **Edit**.
```
